Welcome to Cognitive Class Labs, previously known as
Data Scientist Workbench or BDU Labs. It's a free virtual lab environment that
lets you practice your skills in Python, R, and more, while you learn data science. It's ready to use in your web browser. So without having to install
anything on your computer, you can immediately start using popular
data science tools like RStudio IDE, Jupiter Notebooks, Apache Zeppelin,
Open Refine, SeaHorse, and more. In these videos, you'll be learning
about these popular tools and how to get familiar working
in the environments. Cognitive Class Labs is also the virtual
lab environment for cognitiveclass.ai, a popular website with lots of free
online courses in data science, artificial intelligence,
and data engineering. But throughout these videos,
you'll also hear us referring to Data Scientist Workbench, which is simply
the former name of Cognitive Class Labs. So in actuality, Cognitive Class Labs and Data Scientist Workbench are one and
the same. Let's first go through some of the user
interface on Cognitive Class Labs to get you familiarized with
the environment before jumping into the data science tools. Here's the menu pane situated
on the left side of the screen. In the Find Data section, you'll have
access to two important resources, IBM Analytics Exchange and OpenData. Let's take a quick look at each one. IBM Analytics Exchange connects you to IBM
Blue Mix which allows you to explore and discover all sorts of online public data. And you can use that data
in any of these notebooks. By clicking on the Open Data link, you'll
be connected to many sources of open data, including the United Nations Data Sets, Open Government Data, Industry Open Data,
and Open Data Search Engines. Then, at the bottom of the menu,
you have a number of other useful links. Let's start with Workbench Status. Here you can get information about
the status of the Cognitive Class Labs, whether it's operational or
down for maintenance. If you're having problems
with Cognitive Class Labs, click this link to check its status. If all systems are operational, then open a ticket by clicking the Support
tab at the right of the screen. By clicking on the Submit an idea link, you can share your ideas about
Cognitive Class Labs directly with IBM. For example,
you can describe other tools or features that you'd like to see
next on Cognitive Class Labs. Please note that the current
tools were all put into place based on input from the community. Your ideas are definitely taken seriously. We certainly want to improve this tool for
everyone. Next, check out the blog. Here you'll be able to get the scoop
on the latest data science news. Clicking on the knowledge based
link allows you to search for answers to all your questions
on Cognitive Class Labs. You can also find updates here on
the status of your submitted ideas. The articles are organized by tool or you can search through all the articles
within the knowledge base. The feedback forum link gives you
the opportunity to provide your input on any of the tools, whether it'll be to
offer praise or even to make a complaint. You can use the voting buttons to
give us a sense of what you think. To vote on a topic, click Vote,
and give either 1, 2, or 3 votes. We listen to what you tell us. In fact, Cognitive Class Labs which originally
created based on all your suggestions. So keep those ideas coming. Use the Support link to open a ticket or
to check on the status of your feedback or submitted ideas. The online learning link takes
you to cognitiveclass.ai Where you can take all the free
courses they have to offer. Check out their learning paths. And finally, the What's New link shows you everything
that's new with Cognitive Class Labs. Things brings us to the end of this video. Thanks for watching.