
What is the cloud?

Cloud is a godsend for data scientists primarily because you take your data, take your information, and put it in the Cloud, put it in the central storage system. It allows you to bypass the physical limitations of the computers and the systems you're using, and it allows you to deploy the analytics and storage capacities of advanced machines that do not necessarily have to be your machine or your company's machine. Cloud allows you not just to store large amounts of data on servers somewhere in California or in Nevada, but it also allows you to deploy very advanced computing algorithms and the ability to do high performance computing using machines that are not yours. So, think of it as you have some information, you can't store it, so you send it to storage space, let's call it Cloud. And the algorithms that you need to use, you don't have them with you. But then, on the Cloud, you have those algorithms available. So, what you do is you deploy those algorithms on very large data sets and you're able to do it even though your own systems, your own machines, your own computing environment would not allow you to do so. So, Cloud is beautiful. And the other thing Cloud is beautiful for is that it allows multiple entities to work with same data at the same time. So, you can be working with the same data that your colleagues in, say, Germany, and another team in India, and another team in Ghana, they are collectively working and they're able to do so because the information, and the algorithms, and the tools, and the answers, and the results, whatever they needed is available at a central place which we call Cloud. So, Cloud is beautiful. At the Big Data University which is an IBM initiative, we have these courses people can take and learn about data science. But at the same time, we provide these Cloud-based environment for not only analytics but also for working with big and small data. So, one of the products that is integrated with Big Data University is Data Scientist Workbench. Data Scientist Workbench is an internet-based solution. You log in, and the moment you log in, you now have access to some very advanced computing environments. As simple as R in RStudio, and data and algorithms to define the data set using OpenRefine, but also the ability to work with very large data sets using technologies like Spark. So, the advantage of working with Data Scientist Workbench is not only that you have the ability to work with these advanced algorithms into computing platforms, but you also have the ability to work with very large data set, because Spark is integrated and it's all in the Cloud. You don't have to maintain it. You don't have to download it. You don't have to worry about updating it. All is being done for you in the Cloud by the Data Scientist Workbench.