Data Science Topics and Algorithms

I really enjoy regression
I'd say regression was maybe one of the first concepts that I that really helped
me understand data so I enjoy a regression. I really like data
visualization I think it's a key element for people to get across their message
to people that don't understand that well what data science is. Artificial
neural networks. I'm really passionate about neural networks because we have a
lot to learn with nature so when we are trying to mimic our our brain I think
that we can do some applications with this behavior with this biological
behavior in algorithms. Data visualization with R I love to do this.
Nearest neighbor. It's the simplest but it just gets the best results so many
more times than some overblown overworked algorithm that's just as
likely to overfit as it is to make a good fit. So structured data is more like
tabular data things that you're familiar with in Microsoft Excel format you've
got rows and columns and that's called structured data. Unstructured data is
basically data that is coming from mostly from web where it's not tabular
it is not it's not in rows and columns it's text it's sometimes it's video and
audio so you would have to deploy more sophisticated algorithms to extract data
and in fact a lot of times we take unstructured data and spend a great deal
of time and effort to get some structure out of it and then analyze it. So if you
have something which fits nicely into tables and columns and rows go
ahead that's your structured data but if you see if it's a weblog or if you're
trying to get information out of webpages and you've got a gazillion web
pages that's unstructured data that would
require a little bit more effort to get information out of it. Let me explain
regression in the simplest possible terms. If you have ever taken a cab ride
a taxi ride you understand regression. Here's how it works. The moment you sit
in a cab ride in a cab you see that there's a fixed amount there it's
is $2.50 you rather the cab moves or you get off this is what you owe to the
driver the moment you step into a cab that's a constant you have to pay that
amount if you have stepped into a cab. Then as it starts moving for every meter
or hundred meters the fare increases by certain amount so there's a there's a
fraction there's a relationship between distance and the amount you would pay
above and beyond that constant. And if you're not moving and you're stuck in
traffic then every additional minute you have to pay more so as the minutes
increase your fare increases as the distance increases your fare increases
and while all this is happening you've already paid a base fare which is the
constant this is what regression is regression tells you what the base fare
is and what is the relationship between time and the fare you have paid and the
distance you have traveled and the fear you've paid because in the absence of
knowing those relationships and just knowing how much people traveled for and
how much they paid regression allows you to compute that constant that you didn't
know it was 2.50 and it would compute the relationship between the fare and and
the distance and the fare and the time. That is regression. you
